# Can actors be used with information that is sensitive

Of course actors can use sensitive information but the problem is how to regulate this. As this is a federated project where everybody can make a actor (bot / service) to add to the platform.  
Because currently it's not quite clear what regulations will be in place to add an bot the platform, I will speculate on certain things like free-control and moderation.  
If the bot can be added without any approval of a moderation / admin / test platform I advise anything related to sensitive information will not be done and that only certain individuals can add these kinds of bots.

## What is the sensitive data / information that we want to use?

1. User Personal Information: This includes data such as names, email addresses, and other contact information.
2. User Generated Content: This includes the questions, answers, and comments that users post on the platform.
3. User Activity Data: This includes data about how users interact with the platform, such as the questions they view and the topics they follow.
4. User Preferences: This includes data about a user’s settings and preferences on the platform, such as language, timezone, and notification settings. (with this you can create insights to user habits and preferences)
5. Finance: This includes for example bank information such as bank name, bank number. Although it's not known how the DVerse platform will create revenue, some examples could be fundraising, paid-accounts and sponsorships. Determent on that other information can be excluded or included.

Although everything apart of Finance is basic data that will be generated by a normal social media and thus is most obvious. I have included Finance because it can't always be free and determent on user participation and server cost it will vary on how long it can run on free things without dissolving user experience.

## What can access this sensitive information?

I recommend that only bots approved by moderation or admin of the server it can be included and can only access rights that they explicit set. Also they need to have reliable connection and include encryption across communication. Furthermore it can't write down anything of the given information as it will likely be not the most secure thing in the world and the owner can use the information for things that are not over seeable on the internet or in real life.

I also recommend that the data itself will be encrypted and that with both the key that's generated for that specific bot and a general key for the specif topic/task that can be done. That only then the information can be unencrypted and processed according to the GDPR or/and country data laws. As such a report on where it follows the GDPR and other data laws needs to be available to the moderation and/or admin.

If the law is not fulfilled then certain actions need to be taken such as 3 strikes and can't make anything regarding sensitive information. Or that they validate the conditions for the sensitive data that is placed on the DVerse platform. But because not everybody knows the full extend of the law it would be difficult to always fulfill this and so we (as the DVerse platform) have an obligation to inform regular users that the possibility of sensitive data abuse is possible and that certain things are not fully in the DVerse's control.

## Can publicly everybody get the information to make an actor for this?

I recommend that the public can make their bots and that they need to follow regulations of the government, the DVerse platform and hosting where the bot will be active. If not then they can be dismissed from making any other bots or other punishment based on the moderators and/or admin where the platform is hosted.

Furthermore if there is something of a test platform where you can see how good your boot is or admin/moderators then this will also prove it's up to the task of handling sensitive information.

## What are we going to do to ensure that everything can be secure?

The current plan is to look through the network traffic to see what kind of messages are exchanged through the MessageBus and other actors. Furthermore with sensitive data is't needed that it be over a secure connection such a HTTPS or WSS.

I also recommend that with actors that can handle sensitive data that a report of what it follows for GDPR and other laws to handle this data.

## Which laws apply to an actor and how can we ensure that we are following it?

For this there will be a separate research for laws that apply to this project around the GDPR.

For other laws there is no plan to be looked into.

## Can we ban certain regions from accessing particular bots or in reverse?

In certain countries you need to block a bot or function based on the country they are residing in or where it's hosted. Because countries not always have the same restrictions and possible other restrictions they do have. Although geo location is not reliable it will help with not crossing boundaries that the government and users won't want be crossed.

This can be done by for example IP, geo location, Time zone, local settings (in platform or on device) and Content Delivery Network (CDN) or Web Analytics Tools (such as Cloudflare or Google Analytics)  

## How is it going to be stored?

Information regarding that need to be coupled to a certain user will be solved in a relationship database so everything can be ket pin a place so information to the user can be brought up quick and easy. Which database is not determined as the security of databases is not yet available to me currently as no research is done on that.

An example of one of these tables could be:

|ID| User_ID | Question | Route |
| - | -| -| -|
|1|1|How to make toast | { User:1, MessageID: 100, Org: "recipe", actor: "ToastMaker9000" }|

## How long will we store information?

For non-sensitive information I recommend between 3 months to a year because of the volume of likely questions asked but it could also be less such that with a button all previous questions are forgotten by the users prompt window but for database it's still available for a month or the like.

Users can also request their data and their data be deleted. Such cases I recommend to not fully automate so that if any weird questions like "which cleaning fluids create a dangerous gas" can be caught and be brought to attention for other more dangerous questions.

Finance information I recommend to have available till around a month or a bit more after deletion of the user so that if there were costs brought to the ex-user they can be easily resolved.

## What is the policy if there goes something wrong with the actor or connection? (Data breach/ Advanced persistent threats )

There will always be a possibility of it happening but with data breaches the owner of the component that caused the data breach is held responsible this can start with denying access of all their bots to legal actions of the severity of the problem.
